Add Grafana E2E version resolver action (#9)
grafana/plugin-actions: e2e-version/README.md

# E2E Grafana version resolver

This Action resolves what versions of Grafana to use when E2E testing a Grafana plugin in a Github Action.

## Features

The action supports two modes.

**plugin-grafana-dependency (default)**
The will return all the latest patch release of every minor version of Grafana since the version that was specified as grafanaDependency in the plugin.json. This requires the plugin.json file to be placed in the `<root>/src` directory.

### Example

At the time of writing, the most recent release of Grafana is 10.2.2. If the plugin has specified >=8.0.0 as `grafanaDependency` in the plugin.json file, the output would be:

```json
[
  "10.2.2",
  "10.1.5",
  "10.0.9",
  "9.5.14",
  "9.4.17",
  "9.3.16",
  "9.2.20",
  "9.1.8",
  "9.0.8",
  "8.5.27",
  "8.4.11",
  "8.3.11",
  "8.2.7",
  "8.1.8",
  "8.0.7"
]
```

Please note that the output changes as new versions of Grafana are being released.

**version-support-policy**

> This will resolve versions according to Grafana's plugin compatibility support policy. This means it will resolve the latest patch release for every minor version for the current major version of Grafana, plus the most recent patch release for the last minor of the previous major version of Grafana.

Reviewer: Not sure if this is any better...

```suggestion
This will resolve versions according to Grafana's plugin compatibility support policy. Specifically, it retrieves the latest patch release for each minor version within the current major version of Grafana. Additionally, it includes the most recent release for the latest minor version of the previous major Grafana version.```

Author: Yes much better, thanks!

# E2E Grafana version resolver

This Action resolves what versions of Grafana to use when E2E testing a Grafana plugin in a Github Action.

## Features

The action supports two modes.

**plugin-grafana-dependency (default)**
The will return all minor versions of Grafana that have been released since the version that was specified as grafanaDependency in the plugin.json. This requires the plugin.json file to be placed in the `<root>/src` directory.

**version-support-policy**
This will resolve versions according to Grafana's plugin compatibility support policy, meaning it will resolve all minors for the current major version and the last minor of the previous major version.

> The output of the action is a json array of Grafana minor versions. These can be used to specify a version matrix in a subsequent workflow job. See examples below.

Author: Yes they are. I'll update the docs!

> The output of the action is a json array of Grafana minor versions. These can be used to specify a version matrix in a subsequent workflow job. See examples below.

Author: Hehe wording this turned out to be really hard for me. Maybe you can take a look and make sure it makes sense? :) Also added some examples.

> The output of the action is a json array of Grafana minor versions. These can be used to specify a version matrix in a subsequent workflow job. See examples below.

Reviewer: Maybe something like:

```suggestion
The result of this action is a JSON array that lists the latest patch version for each Grafana minor version. These values can be employed to define a version matrix in a subsequent workflow job.
```

## Workflow example

### plugin-grafana-dependency

```yaml
name: E2E tests - Playwright
on:
  pull_request:

jobs:
  setup-matrix:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    outputs:
      matrix: ${{ steps.resolve-versions.outputs.matrix }}
    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - name: Resolve Grafana E2E versions
        id: resolve-versions
        uses: grafana/plugin-actions/e2e-version
        with:
          version-resolver-type: plugin-grafana-dependency

>   playwright-tests:

Reviewer 2: nit: add a comment here explaining how this matrix will runs the test against all the grafana versions.

    needs: setup-matrix
    strategy:
      matrix:
        GRAFANA_VERSION: ${{fromJson(needs.setup-matrix.outputs.matrix)}}
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      ...
      - name: Start Grafana

>         run: docker run --rm -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana grafana/grafana:${{ matrix.GRAFANA_VERSION }}; sleep 30

Reviewer 2: curious, why do we need this `sleep 30`?

Reviewer: I'm gonna guess its to give the server time to start up in a gh runner. Would probably be nicer to poll for a response if that's the case.

Author: Yep. Not sure we need this though. I'll remove it.

# E2E Grafana version resolver

This Action resolves what versions of Grafana to use when E2E testing a Grafana plugin in a Github Action.

## Features

The action supports two modes.

**plugin-grafana-dependency (default)**

> The will return all minor versions of Grafana that have been released since the version that was specified as grafanaDependency in the plugin.json. This requires the plugin.json file to be placed in the `<root>/src` directory.

Reviewer: I'm also thinking the same as @academo regarding over time this producing a large number of jobs. If I create a plugin that is compatible with Grafana 8 and I set the `grafanaDependency: >=8.0.0` what does the matrix look like?

Author: Today the output would be:
```json
["10.2.2","10.1.5","10.0.9","9.5.14","9.4.17","9.3.16","9.2.20","9.1.8","9.0.8","8.5.27","8.4.11","8.3.11","8.2.7","8.1.8","8.0.7"]
```

So yes, a lot of jobs. I guess your main concern here is computational resources? 

If we look at this from a plugin author's perspective, I think it makes sense to run E2E tests against all versions of Grafana that your plugin is supposed to have compatibility with (according to grafanaDependency in plugin.json). That being said, I _think_ many internal plugins haven't touched the grafanaDependency prop in plugin.json since they the project started, so in most cases it's probably no longer accurate. 

In case the actions is used with the `version-support-policy` mode,  the output today would be
```json
["10.2.2","10.1.5","10.0.9","9.5.14"]
```
Maybe this should be the default resolver instead? 
cc @academo

Author: Yeah that's a good idea. I'll try to come up with a proposal.
